**Worksheet \#4: 1 John 1:1–10 (NKJV)**

That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled, concerning the Word of life—^2^ the life was manifested, and we have seen, and bear witness, and declare to you that eternal life which was with the Father and was manifested to us—^3^ that which we have seen and heard we declare to you, that you also may have fellowship with us; and truly our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son Jesus Christ. ^4 ^ And these things we write to you that your joy may be full.

^5^ This is the message which we have heard from Him and declare to you, that God is light and in Him is no darkness at all. ^6^ If we say that we have fellowship with Him, and walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. ^7^ But if we walk in the light as He is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus Christ His Son cleanses us from all sin.

^8^ If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. ^9^ If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. ^10^ If we say that we have not sinned, we make Him a liar, and His word is not in us.

Interpretation: *Read through the passage, and then review and make notes under the questions below.*

Read John 1:1–18, and note any similarities you observe between these two passages.

What does John describe with the phrase, “the Word of life” (v. 1)? What does his use of this phrase teach?

What does the word “manifested” (v. 2) mean? [Hint: Consult a study Bible or commentary for help if necessary.]

What do we learn from John’s affirmation that he had “heard,” “seen,” and touched the Word in vv. 1, 2, and 3? Why does this matter?

The Greek word translated “fellowship” (vv. 3, 6, 7) means “to have something in common with someone.”[^1] From the statements in this chapter, what do we share in common with Christ and other believers?

What is the difference between walking in “darkness” (v. 6) and walking in “light” (v. 7)?

What does God do on our behalf if we confess our sins (v. 9)?

Application: *Take time to reflect on the implications of this passage for your own life today.*

What does this passage mean for your walk with the Lord?

How does this passage challenge the way you think about situations in daily life? What should you do about that?

[^1]: J. Y. Campbell, “Κοινωνια and Its Cognates in the New Testament,” *Journal of Biblical Literature*, 51 (December 1932): 352–80.
