**Worksheet \#5: 1 John 2:1–11 (NKJV)**

My little children, these things I write to you, so that you may not sin. And if anyone sins, we have an Advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. ^2^ And He Himself is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only but also for the whole world.

^3^ Now by this we know that we know Him, if we keep His commandments. ^4^ He who says, “I know Him,” and does not keep His commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him. ^5^ But whoever keeps His word, truly the love of God is perfected in him. By this we know that we are in Him. ^6^ He who says he abides in Him ought himself also to walk just as He walked. ^7^ Brethren, I write no new commandment to you, but an old commandment which you have had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word which you heard from the beginning. ^8^ Again, a new commandment I write to you, which thing is true in Him and in you, because the darkness is passing away, and the true light is already shining.

^9^ He who says he is in the light, and hates his brother, is in darkness until now. ^10^ He who loves his brother abides in the light, and there is no cause for stumbling in him. ^11^ But he who hates his brother is in darkness and walks in darkness, and does not know where he is going, because the darkness has blinded his eyes.

Interpretation: *Read through the passage, and then review and make notes under the questions below.*

How does John’s statement of purpose in 2:1 correspond to his purpose statement in 1:3–4?

What does it mean to have “Jesus Christ the righteous” as our advocate before the Father (2:1b)?

Look up the word “propitiation” (2:2) in a study Bible, Bible dictionary, or other theological reference source and explain what it means.

In what sense does 1 John 2:3 provide assurance? In what sense does it provide a warning? How do verses 4 and 5 expand both aspects of this verse?

What is the basic expectation for a believer in Christ (2:6)?

What is the “old commandment” (singular) that John describes in verse 7? Compare 1 John 3:23, 4:21; 2 John 4–6 to understand this term. What is “old” about this command?

What is “new” about the command that John gives to the church (2:8), and why?

What test does John give in vv. 9–11 for evaluating the genuineness of one’s profession of faith?

Application: *Take time to reflect on the implications of this passage for your own life today.*

What does this passage mean for your walk with the Lord?

How does this passage challenge the way you think about situations in daily life? What should you do about that?
