**Worksheet \#6: 1 John 2:12–23 (NKJV)**

^12^ I write to you, little children, Because your sins are forgiven you for His name’s sake. ^13^ I write to you, fathers, Because you have known Him who is from the beginning. I write to you, young men, Because you have overcome the wicked one. I write to you, little children, Because you have known the Father. ^14^ I have written to you, fathers, Because you have known Him who is from the beginning. I have written to you, young men, Because you are strong, and the word of God abides in you, And you have overcome the wicked one.

^15^ Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. ^16^ For all that is in the world—the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life—is not of the Father but is of the world. ^17^ And the world is passing away, and the lust of it; but he who does the will of God abides forever.

^18^ Little children, it is the last hour; and as you have heard that the Antichrist is coming, even now many antichrists have come, by which we know that it is the last hour. ^19^ They went out from us, but they were not of us; for if they had been of us, they would have continued with us; but they went out that they might be made manifest, that none of them were of us.

^20^ But you have an anointing from the Holy One, and you know all things. ^21^ I have not written to you because you do not know the truth, but because you know it, and that no lie is of the truth. ^22^ Who is a liar but he who denies that Jesus is the Christ? He is antichrist who denies the Father and the Son. ^23 ^ Whoever denies the Son does not have the Father either; he who acknowledges the Son has the Father also.

Interpretation: *Read through the passage, and then review and make notes under the questions below.*

Verses 12–14 is one of the most rhetorically structured passages in this entire letter, perhaps partly to aid in memorization. Copy out the text of these verses below, placing parallel elements on the same line (v. 12 is done for you). As you do so, consider the purpose of this section. How does it relate to the material in 1:5–2:11? How does it relate to 2:15ff?

I write to you,

little children,

because your sins are forgiven you

for His name’s sake.

Why might John address the particular groups that he does in vv. 12–14? What message did he wish to communicate to each group, and why might that message be appropriate?

The first command in 1 John appears in 2:15, and it is immediately followed by a strong statement of warning in the second half of the verse. How can the love of the world and the love of the Father be so mutually exclusive?

What can we learn about the original situation that occasioned this letter from the statements of 2:18–19?

What does it mean to “have an anointing from the Holy One” and to “know all things” (2:20)?

What does vv. 22–23 reveal as the error of the secessionists (who were originally mentioned in 2:19)?

Application: *Take time to reflect on the implications of this passage for your own life today.*

What does this passage mean for your walk with the Lord?

How does this passage challenge the way you think about situations in daily life? What should you do about that?
