**Worksheet \#7: 1 John 2:24–3:3 (NKJV)**

^24^ Therefore let that abide in you which you heard from the beginning. If what you heard from the beginning abides in you, you also will abide in the Son and in the Father. ^25^ And this is the promise that He has promised us—eternal life.

^26^ These things I have written to you concerning those who try to deceive you. ^27^ But the anointing which you have received from Him abides in you, and you do not need that anyone teach you; but as the same anointing teaches you concerning all things, and is true, and is not a lie, and just as it has taught you, you will abide in Him.

^28^ And now, little children, abide in Him, that when He appears, we may have confidence and not be ashamed before Him at His coming. ^29^ If you know that He is righteous, you know that everyone who practices righteousness is born of Him.

^3:1^ Behold what manner of love the Father has bestowed on us, that we should be called children of God! Therefore the world does not know us, because it did not know Him. ^2^ Beloved, now we are children of God; and it has not yet been revealed what we shall be, but we know that when He is revealed, we shall be like Him, for we shall see Him as He is. ^3^ And everyone who has this hope in Him purifies himself, just as He is pure.

Interpretation: *Read through the passage, and then review and make notes under the questions below.*

Compare 2:24 with 2:20–23. Based on the context, what must be the content of the message that the audience had “heard from the beginning”?

What reasons does John give in 2:25–27 for rejecting the teachings of the secessionists?

If “the anointing” is something that “abides” in you and “teaches” you, how can it ensure that you will “abide in Him” (2:27)?

Why does John command his readers to “abide in Him” in 2:28? Why would he feel such a command to be necessary, especially if doing so yields “confidence” and a lack of shame at His coming?

In 2:29, John writes that “*everyone* who practices righteousness is born of Him” (my emphasis). How can this statement can be true? How can the (hypothetical) converse statement—“everyone who practices *un*righteousness is *not* born of Him”—also be true?

What does it mean to be called “children of God” (3:1)?

What does John mean by saying, “it has not yet been revealed what we shall be” (3:2)? What will take place at the final revelation of Christ?

What does John mean by saying that a believer will “purify himself” (3:3)?

Application: *Take time to reflect on the implications of this passage for your own life today.*

What does this passage mean for your walk with the Lord?

How does this passage challenge the way you think about situations in daily life? What should you do about that?
