**Worksheet \#8: 1 John 3:4-15 (NKJV)**

^4^ Whoever commits sin also commits lawlessness, and sin is lawlessness. ^5^ And you know that He was manifested to take away our sins, and in Him there is no sin. ^6^ Whoever abides in Him does not sin. Whoever sins has neither seen Him nor known Him.

^7^ Little children, let no one deceive you. He who practices righteousness is righteous, just as He is righteous. ^8^ He who sins is of the devil, for the devil has sinned from the beginning. For this purpose the Son of God was manifested, that He might destroy the works of the devil. ^9^ Whoever has been born of God does not sin, for His seed remains in him; and he cannot sin, because he has been born of God.

^10^ In this the children of God and the children of the devil are manifest: Whoever does not practice righteousness is not of God, nor is he who does not love his brother. ^11^ For this is the message that you heard from the beginning, that we should love one another, ^12^ not as Cain who was of the wicked one and murdered his brother. And why did he murder him? Because his works were evil and his brother’s righteous.

^13^ Do not marvel, my brethren, if the world hates you. ^14^ We know that we have passed from death to life, because we love the brethren. He who does not love his brother abides in death. ^15 ^ Whoever hates his brother is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him.

Interpretation: *Read through the passage, and then review and make notes under the questions below.*

What is “lawlessness”? What do we learn about the term from its other occurrences in the New Testament (Matt. 7:23; 13:41; 23:28; 24:12; Rom. 4:7; 6:19; 2 Co. 6:14; 2 Thess. 2:3, 7; Tit. 2:14; Heb. 1:9; 10:17)?

The word translated “abide” in 3:6 can also be translated “remain.” How does this additional nuance help to explain this verse?

Compare 3:7 with 2:26–27. How is it possible for John’s readers to be deceived?

In what way is the one who sins “of the devil” (3:8)?

What are the tests of genuine conversion that John defines in 3:10?

How is the story of Cain illustrative of John’s larger point in this passage? How does it introduce John’s point in 3:13ff?

Application: *Take time to reflect on the implications of this passage for your own life today.*

How can we apply the teaching of 3:13–15 to conflict within the church?

What does this passage mean for your walk with the Lord?

How does this passage challenge the way you think about situations in daily life? What should you do about that?
