**Worksheet \#9: 1 John 3:16–24 (NKJV)**

^16^ By this we know love, because He laid down His life for us. And we also ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. ^17^ But whoever has this world’s goods, and sees his brother in need, and shuts up his heart from him, how does the love of God abide in him?

^18^ My little children, let us not love in word or in tongue, but in deed and in truth. ^19^ And by this we know that we are of the truth, and shall assure our hearts before Him. ^20^ For if our heart condemns us, God is greater than our heart, and knows all things. ^21^ Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, we have confidence toward God. ^22^ And whatever we ask we receive from Him, because we keep His commandments and do those things that are pleasing in His sight. ^23^ And this is His commandment: that we should believe on the name of His Son Jesus Christ and love one another, as He gave us commandment.

^24^ Now he who keeps His commandments abides in Him, and He in him. And by this we know that He abides in us, by the Spirit whom He has given us.

Interpretation: *Read through the passage, and then review and make notes under the questions below.*

Should we interpret “we also ought to lay down our lives for the brethren” (v. 16) in a literal sense (describing martyrdom), in a figurative sense (describing willingness for self-sacrifice), or both? Support your answer from the context.

What does it mean to “shut up [your] heart” toward those within the church in physical or financial need (v. 17)? How does doing so demonstrate an absence of the love of God?

How does John’s exhortation to love in deed and truth (v. 18) produce assurance (v. 19)?

How is the omniscience of God a means of assurance (v. 20)?

What is the objective basis for assurance described in v. 22?

How do the two components of Christ’s commandment relate to each other (v. 23)?

What additional means of assurance (aside from obedience) do we find in v. 24?

Application: *Take time to reflect on the implications of this passage for your own life today.*

Consider how you have responded to the physical/financial needs of others within your church. Have your actions demonstrated that you have the love of God (v. 17)?

What does this passage mean for your walk with the Lord?

How does this passage challenge the way you think about situations in daily life? What should you do about that?
