**Worksheet \#11: 1 John 4:12–21 (NKJV)**

^12^ No one has seen God at any time. If we love one another, God abides in us, and His love has been perfected in us. ^13^ By this we know that we abide in Him, and He in us, because He has given us of His Spirit. ^14^ And we have seen and testify that the Father has sent the Son as Savior of the world. ^15 ^ Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him, and he in God. ^16^ And we have known and believed the love that God has for us. God is love, and he who abides in love abides in God, and God in him.

^17^ Love has been perfected among us in this: that we may have boldness in the day of judgment; because as He is, so are we in this world. ^18^ There is no fear in love; but perfect love casts out fear, because fear involves torment. But he who fears has not been made perfect in love. ^19^ We love Him because He first loved us.

^20^ If someone says, “I love God,” and hates his brother, he is a liar; for he who does not love his brother whom he has seen, how can he love God whom he has not seen? ^21^ And this commandment we have from Him: that he who loves God must love his brother also.

Interpretation: *Read through the passage, and then review and make notes under the questions below.*

In what sense can it be true that “**no one** has seen God **at any time**” (4:12)? How would you reconcile this verse with John 1:18 and John 14:9? Why does John interrupt his discussion of the love of God with this sentence in 1 John 4:12?

How will we know when God’s love is “perfected” (lit. “made complete”) in us (4:12)? What can we learn from the other places where John uses the term “perfected” (1 John 2:5; 4:17–18)?

What does John present as evidence of mutual indwelling in 4:13? Compare and contrast the roles of the Father, Son and Spirit as described in 4:13–14.

What is “the love that God has for us” which we have “known” and “believed” (4:16)? In what sense can we “know” and “believe” this love? How does John 13:35 relate to this passage?

What does the “this” refer to in the beginning of 4:17, “Love has been perfected among us in **this**”? Does it refer to the preceding context, or the rest of the verse? How does this statement about love relate to the rest of the verse?

How does the love of God in the life of the believer eliminate fear (4:18)? What kinds of fear cannot coexist with love for God?

Application: *Take time to reflect on the implications of this passage for your own life today.*

How often have you thought that you loved God, while at the same time failed to love another believer (4:20)?

What does this passage mean for your walk with the Lord?

How does this passage challenge the way you think about situations in daily life? What should you do about that?
