**Worksheet \#13: 1 John 5:14–21 (NKJV)**

^14^ Now this is the confidence that we have in Him, that if we ask anything according to His will, He hears us. ^15^ And if we know that He hears us, whatever we ask, we know that we have the petitions that we have asked of Him.

^16^ If anyone sees his brother sinning a sin which does not lead to death, he will ask, and He will give him life for those who commit sin not leading to death. There is sin leading to death. I do not say that he should pray about that. ^17^ All unrighteousness is sin, and there is sin not leading to death.

^18^ We know that whoever is born of God does not sin; but he who has been born of God keeps himself, and the wicked one does not touch him.

^19^ We know that we are of God, and the whole world lies under the sway of the wicked one.

^20^ And we know that the Son of God has come and has given us an understanding, that we may know Him who is true; and we are in Him who is true, in His Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God and eternal life.

^21^ Little children, keep yourselves from idols. Amen.

Interpretation: *Read through the passage, and then review and make notes under the questions below.*

How can John make such confident assertions in vv. 14–15?

Review what John says about sin in 1:7–10, 2:1–12, and 3:4–9. Summarize the teaching of each passage in one sentence. Then, attempt to craft one sentence that explains 5:16-17 in light of the full context of John’s teaching on sin in the life of the believer.

How does 5:18 warn us about claiming to believe in God and yet making no effort to turn from sin?

What does it mean to have received “understanding” from the Son of God (5:20)? What does John identify as the result of this knowledge/understanding in v. 20?

In what way is the warning in v. 21 to “keep yourselves from idols” an appropriate way to close this book?

Application: *Take time to reflect on the implications of this passage for your own life today.*

What does this passage mean for your walk with the Lord?

How does this passage challenge the way you think about situations in daily life? What should you do about that?

Review: *Take a few moments to look back through your study of 1–3 John. *

What are some passages/topics in 1–3 John that you found to be particularly challenging?

What are some passages/topics in 1–3 John that you found particularly helpful?
