**Worksheet 8: 1 Corinthians 10:1–11:1**

**Introduction: **

In chapter 10, Paul concludes his discussion of the matter of food offered to idols. After pointing to his own life as an example in chapter 9, Paul now provides two further examples in 10:1–22 to refute the Corinthians’ practice of attending meals at pagan temples. In 10:1–13, Paul uses the example of Israel in the wilderness. In 10:14–22, Paul uses the example of the Lord’s Supper (which will reappear as a topic of discussion in chapter 11). Arguing from both these examples that the Christian should not knowingly eat food that was offered to idols, Paul then gives practical admonitions for dealing with the issue in 10:23–11:1.

**Abbreviated Outline**[^1] **(current passage in bold):**

I.  Introduction (1:1-9)

II. Response to Oral Reports (1:10-6:20)

    A.  A Proper Perspective on Christian Ministers and Ministry (1:10-4:21)

    B.  Immorality in the Church (5:1-13)

    C.  Disputes Between Believers (6:1-11)

    D.  Limitations on Freedom in Christ (6:12-20)

III. Responses to a Letter from the Corinthians (7:1-16:4)

    A.  Matters related to Sex and Marriage (7:1-40)

    B.  **Matters related to Idol Feasts (8:1-11:1)**

        1.  Food Offered to Idols (8:1-13)

        2.  Paul Foregoes Rights of Apostle (9:1-27)

        3.  **Food Offered to Idols (continued; 10:1-11:1)**

    C.  Matters related to Christian Worship (11:2-34)

    D.  Matters related to Spiritual Gifts (12:1-14:40)

    E.  Matters related to the Resurrection (15:1-58)

    F.  Matters related to the Relief Offering (16:1-4)

IV. Conclusion (16:5-24)

Interpretation: *Read through the passage, and then review and make notes under the questions below.*

Why is it important that our forefathers in Israel shared a common experience in Christ (10:1–4)?

What caused God to be displeased with them (10:5)?

What is the relationship between the examples in 10:6–11 and the warning in 10:12–13?

Why is it important for Paul to emphasize that all believers participate together in Christ through the cup and bread of communion (10:16–17)?

What is Paul saying in 10:18? (You might find 10:19–20 to be helpful.)

Explain how 10:21–22 reinforces Paul’s conclusion regarding idol meat.

In 10:23, Paul twice repeats a Corinthian slogan that first appeared in 6:12. What is that slogan, and what is the principle that Paul defines in his response in 10:23–24?

How does Paul instruct the “strong” in 10:25–29?

What kind of behavior would bring glory to God in this situation (10:31)?

Application: *Take time to reflect on the implications of this passage for your own life today.*

What does this passage mean for your walk with the Lord?

How does this passage challenge the way you think about situations in daily life? What should you do about that?

[^1]: The complete outline is available on the Meadowlands Baptist Church website (www.meadowlandsbaptist.ca). Adapted from Andreas J. Köstenberger, L. Scott Kellum, and Charles L. Quarles, *The Cradle, The Cross, and The Crown: An Introduction to the New Testament* (Nashville, Tenn: B & H Academic, 2009), 482–483.
