**Worksheet 13: 1 Corinthians 16:1–24**

**Introduction:** In the concluding chapter of 1 Corinthians, Paul wraps up the letter with final instructions regarding an offering for the church in Jerusalem (16:1–4), a word about his own plans and the plans of Timothy and Apollos (16:5–12), closing exhortations (16:13–14), commendations and greetings (16:15–20), and Paul’s farewell (16:21–24).

Some of the topics in this chapter, such as the collection and Paul’s travel plans, will become major issues by the time Paul writes 2 Corinthians. At this point, Paul is brief as he concludes this major letter addressing challenges within the church at Corinth.

**Abbreviated Outline**[^1] **(current passage in bold):**

I.  Introduction (1:1-9)

II. Response to Oral Reports (1:10-6:20)

    A.  A Proper Perspective on Christian Ministers and Ministry (1:10-4:21)

    B.  Immorality in the Church (5:1-13)

    C.  Disputes Between Believers (6:1-11)

    D.  Limitations on Freedom in Christ (6:12-20)

III. Responses to a Letter from the Corinthians (7:1-16:4)

    A.  Matters related to Sex and Marriage (7:1-40)

    B.  Matters related to Idol Feasts (8:1-11:1)

    C.  Matters related to Christian Worship (11:2-34)

    D.  Matters related to Spiritual Gifts (12:1-14:40)

        1.  Diversity of Gifts, Unity in the Body (12:1-31)

        2.  The Supremacy of Love (13:1-13)

        3.  Prophecy and Tongues (14:1-40)

    E.  Matters related to the Resurrection (15:1-58)

    F.  **Matters related to the Relief Offering (16:1-4)**

IV. **Conclusion (16:5-24)**

Interpretation: *Read through the passage, and then review and make notes under the questions below.*

Summarize Paul’s instructions in 16:2 regarding the collection. How much does Paul ask the Corinthians to give in this verse?

How does Paul instruct the Corinthians to respond to Timothy (16:10–11)? What does this teach us about the relationship between a church and a faithful minister of the Lord?

Explain the relationship between 16:13 and 16:22, and then consider the relationship between these verses and the rest of the epistle of 1 Corinthians.

Why does Paul commend Stephanus, Fortunatus, and Achaicus to the Corinthian church (16:17–18)?

Application: *Take time to reflect on the implications of this passage for your own life today.*

What does this passage mean for your walk with the Lord?

How does this passage challenge the way you think about situations in daily life? What should you do about that?

Review: *Take a few moments to look back through your study of 1 Corinthians. *

What are some passages/topics in 1 Corinthians that you found to be particularly challenging?

What are some passages/topics in 1 Corinthians that you found particularly helpful?

[^1]: The complete outline is available on the Meadowlands Baptist Church website (www.meadowlandsbaptist.ca). Adapted from Andreas J. Köstenberger, L. Scott Kellum, and Charles L. Quarles, *The Cradle, The Cross, and The Crown: An Introduction to the New Testament* (Nashville: B & H Academic, 2009), 482–483.
