**Worksheet \#3: 1 Timothy 1:12–20 (NKJV)**

And I thank Christ Jesus our Lord who has enabled me, because He counted me faithful, putting *me* into the ministry, ^13^ although I was formerly a blasphemer, a persecutor, and an insolent man; but I obtained mercy because I did *it* ignorantly in unbelief. ^14^ And the grace of our Lord was exceedingly abundant, with faith and love which are in Christ Jesus. ^15^ This *is* a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptance, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am chief. ^16^ However, for this reason I obtained mercy, that in me first Jesus Christ might show all longsuffering, as a pattern to those who are going to believe on Him for everlasting life. ^17^ Now to the King eternal, immortal, invisible, to God who alone is wise, *be* honor and glory forever and ever. Amen.

^18^ This charge I commit to you, son Timothy, according to the prophecies previously made concerning you, that by them you may wage the good warfare, ^19^ having faith and a good conscience, which some having rejected, concerning the faith have suffered shipwreck, ^20^ of whom are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I delivered to Satan that they may learn not to blaspheme.

Interpretation: *Read through the passage, and then review and make notes under the questions below.*

1.  What must it have meant to Paul to sense that Christ had “counted \[him to be\] faithful,” placing him in ministry (v. 12)?

2.  In what sense had Paul received “mercy,” and in what sense had he received abundant “grace” (vv. 13–14)?

3.  Why could Paul say that the “faith and love which are in Christ Jesus” was an evidence of grace in his life (v. 14)?

4.  Why could Paul claim to be “chief” among sinners (v. 15)?

5.  How does Christ’s mercy to Paul allow God to demonstrate his longsuffering? In what sense does Paul serve as “a pattern” (or model) to those who will believe (v. 16)?

6.  What does it mean for Christ to be King “eternal, immortal, invisible” and for God to “alone \[be\] wise” (v. 17)? What does this communicate about God’s character?

7.  What might Paul have in mind when he refers to “the prophecies previously made” concerning Timothy (v. 18)? How does 1 Tim. 4:14 help us to understand this phrase?

8.  What might Paul mean when he says that he “delivered” two people “to Satan” (v. 20)? How would such an action teach them “not to blaspheme”?

Application: *Take time to reflect on the implications of this passage for your own life today.*

1.  What does this passage mean for your walk with the Lord?

2.  How does this passage challenge the way you think about situations in daily life? What should you do about that?


