**Worksheet \#4: 1 Timothy 2:1–15 (NKJV)**

Therefore I exhort first of all that supplications, prayers, intercessions, *and* giving of thanks be made for all men, ^2^ for kings and all who are in authority, that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and reverence. ^3^ For this *is* good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior, ^4^ who desires all men to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth. ^5^ For *there is* one God and one Mediator between God and men, *the* Man Christ Jesus, ^6^ who gave Himself a ransom for all, to be testified in due time, ^7^ for which I was appointed a preacher and an apostle—I am speaking the truth in Christ *and* not lying—a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and truth.

^8^ I desire therefore that the men pray everywhere, lifting up holy hands, without wrath and doubting; ^9^ in like manner also, that the women adorn themselves in modest apparel, with propriety and moderation, not with braided hair or gold or pearls or costly clothing, ^10^ but, which is proper for women professing godliness, with good works. ^11^ Let a woman learn in silence with all submission. ^12^ And I do not permit a woman to teach or to have authority over a man, but to be in silence. ^13^ For Adam was formed first, then Eve. ^14^ And Adam was not deceived, but the woman being deceived, fell into transgression. ^15^ Nevertheless she will be saved in childbearing if they continue in faith, love, and holiness, with self-control.

Interpretation: *Read through the passage, and then review and make notes under the questions below.*

1.  Notice the kinds of prayers that this passage calls Christians to pray “for all men, for kings and all who are in authority.” What was the purpose of these prayers? (vv. 1–2)

2.  What key truth about “God our Savior” should motivate prayers for all men (vv. 3–4)?

3.  Why is it important for Paul to mention that there is “one God and one Mediator between God and men” in v. 5?

4.  Why does Paul emphasize that Christian men pray “lifting up holy hands, without wrath and doubting” (v. 8)?

5.  What does it mean for Christian women to “adorn themselves… with good works” (vv. 9–10)?

6.  What do vv. 11–12 expressly permit, and what do they expressly prohibit? Compare with Tit. 2:3–5; 2 Tim. 1:5; 3:14–15.

7.  What does Paul mean when he says that “Adam was not deceived” (v. 14), since Roman 5:12ff and 1 Cor. 15:21–22 make it clear that Adam sinned in the fall?

8.  What does it mean in v. 15 that the woman (singular) “will be saved in childbearing”? Why does this depend on women (plural) continuing in “faith, love, and holiness, with self-control”? You may wish to consult a study Bible or commentary for some guidance here.

Application: *Take time to reflect on the implications of this passage for your own life today.*

1.  What does this passage mean for your walk with the Lord?

2.  How does this passage challenge the way you think about situations in daily life? What should you do about that?


