**Worksheet \#6: 1 Timothy 4:1–16 (NKJV)**

Now the Spirit expressly says that in latter times some will depart from the faith, giving heed to deceiving spirits and doctrines of demons, ^2^ speaking lies in hypocrisy, having their own conscience seared with a hot iron, ^3^ forbidding to marry, *and commanding* to abstain from foods which God created to be received with thanksgiving by those who believe and know the truth. ^4^ For every creature of God *is* good, and nothing is to be refused if it is received with thanksgiving; ^5^ for it is sanctified by the word of God and prayer.

^6^ If you instruct the brethren in these things, you will be a good minister of Jesus Christ, nourished in the words of faith and of the good doctrine which you have carefully followed. ^7^ But reject profane and old wives’ fables, and exercise yourself toward godliness. ^8^ For bodily exercise profits a little, but godliness is profitable for all things, having promise of the life that now is and of that which is to come. ^9^ This *is* a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptance. ^10^ For to this *end* we both labor and suffer reproach, because we trust in the living God, who is *the* Savior of all men, especially of those who believe. ^11^ These things command and teach.

^12^ Let no one despise your youth, but be an example to the believers in word, in conduct, in love, in spirit, in faith, in purity. ^13^ Till I come, give attention to reading, to exhortation, to doctrine. ^14^ Do not neglect the gift that is in you, which was given to you by prophecy with the laying on of the hands of the eldership. ^15^ Meditate on these things; give yourself entirely to them, that your progress may be evident to all. ^16^ Take heed to yourself and to the doctrine. Continue in them, for in doing this you will save both yourself and those who hear you.

Interpretation: *Read through the passage, and then review and make notes under the questions below.*

1.  What does it mean to “depart from the faith”? How might the “deceiving spirits and doctrines of demons” threaten professing believers? (v. 1)

2.  What does it mean to have a “conscience seared with a hot iron” (v. 2)?

3.  In the face of false teaching about marriage and food (vv. 3–5), how does Paul admonish Timothy to respond (v. 6–7)?

4.  In what sense can we compare pursuing godliness with physical exercise? How are they distinct? (v. 7–8)

5.  Based on the context, what is the “end” toward which Paul “both labor\[ed\] and suffer\[ed\] reproach” (v. 10)?

6.  How did Paul counsel Timothy to undermine criticisms directed toward him because of his “youth” (v. 12)?

7.  What must Paul have in mind by “the gift that is in you” in v. 14?

8.  In what way would Timothy be able to “save both yourself and those who hear you” by continuing in the doctrines he had received (v. 16)?

Application: *Take time to reflect on the implications of this passage for your own life today.*

1.  What does this passage mean for your walk with the Lord?

2.  How does this passage challenge the way you think about situations in daily life? What should you do about that?


