**Worksheet \#8: 1 Timothy 5:17–6:2 (NKJV)**

Let the elders who rule well be counted worthy of double honor, especially those who labor in the word and doctrine. ^18^ For the Scripture says, “You shall not muzzle an ox while it treads out the grain,” and, “The laborer *is* worthy of his wages.” ^19^ Do not receive an accusation against an elder except from two or three witnesses. ^20^ Those who are sinning rebuke in the presence of all, that the rest also may fear.

^21^ I charge *you* before God and the Lord Jesus Christ and the elect angels that you observe these things without prejudice, doing nothing with partiality. ^22^ Do not lay hands on anyone hastily, nor share in other people’s sins; keep yourself pure.

^23^ No longer drink only water, but use a little wine for your stomach’s sake and your frequent infirmities.

^24^ Some men’s sins are clearly evident, preceding *them* to judgment, but those of some *men* follow later. ^25^ Likewise, the good works *of some* are clearly evident, and those that are otherwise cannot be hidden.

**6:1** Let as many bondservants as are under the yoke count their own masters worthy of all honor, so that the name of God and *His* doctrine may not be blasphemed. ^2^ And those who have believing masters, let them not despise *them* because they are brethren, but rather serve *them* because those who are benefited are believers and beloved. Teach and exhort these things.

Interpretation: *Read through the passage, and then review and make notes under the questions below.*

1.  Why is it important for Paul to back up his statement in 5:17 with citations from the Old Testament in 5:18?

2.  What is the purpose for requiring two or three witnesses to corroborate accusations of an elder in 5:19?

3.  Who are the “all” before whom sinning elders are to be rebuked, and who are the “rest” who should respond in fear (5:20)?

4.  Why is it so important for Timothy to act without prejudice or partiality in judging accusations against elders (5:21)?

5.  What does it mean to “not lay hands on anyone hastily,” and why was that important (5:22)?

6.  In what way does the observation in 5:24–25 support the injunction in 5:22?

7.  Why might a Christian slave be tempted to insubordination to his human master? How would that cause “the name of God and His doctrine” to be “blasphemed” (6:1)?

8.  Why does Paul tolerate the institution of slavery (6:1–2) rather than calling Timothy to preach a political message of liberation?

Application: *Take time to reflect on the implications of this passage for your own life today.*

1.  What does this passage mean for your walk with the Lord?

2.  How does this passage challenge the way you think about situations in daily life? What should you do about that?


