**Worksheet \#9: 1 Timothy 6:3–21 (NKJV)**

^3^ If anyone teaches otherwise and does not consent to wholesome words, *even* the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine which accords with godliness, ^4^ he is proud, knowing nothing, but is obsessed with disputes and arguments over words, from which come envy, strife, reviling, evil suspicions, ^5^ useless wranglings of men of corrupt minds and destitute of the truth, who suppose that godliness is a *means of* gain. From such withdraw yourself.

^6^ Now godliness with contentment is great gain. ^7^ For we brought nothing into *this* world, *and it is* certain we can carry nothing out. ^8^ And having food and clothing, with these we shall be content. ^9^ But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and *into* many foolish and harmful lusts which drown men in destruction and perdition. ^10^ For the love of money is a root of all *kinds of* evil, for which some have strayed from the faith in their greediness, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows.

^11^ But you, O man of God, flee these things and pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, gentleness. ^12^ Fight the good fight of faith, lay hold on eternal life, to which you were also called and have confessed the good confession in the presence of many witnesses. ^13^ I urge you in the sight of God who gives life to all things, and *before* Christ Jesus who witnessed the good confession before Pontius Pilate, ^14^ that you keep *this* commandment without spot, blameless until our Lord Jesus Christ’s appearing, ^15^ which He will manifest in His own time, *He who is* the blessed and only Potentate, the King of kings and Lord of lords, ^16^ who alone has immortality, dwelling in unapproachable light, whom no man has seen or can see, to whom *be* honor and everlasting power. Amen.

^17^ Command those who are rich in this present age not to be haughty, nor to trust in uncertain riches but in the living God, who gives us richly all things to enjoy. ^18^ *Let them* do good, that they be rich in good works, ready to give, willing to share, ^19^ storing up for themselves a good foundation for the time to come, that they may lay hold on eternal life. ^20^ O Timothy! Guard what was committed to your trust, avoiding the profane *and* idle babblings and contradictions of what is falsely called knowledge—^21 ^by professing it some have strayed concerning the faith. Grace *be* with you. Amen.

Interpretation: *Read through the passage, and then review and make notes under the questions below.*

1.  For Paul, what is the relationship between correct doctrine and personal holiness (v. 3)?

2.  Why does Paul urge Timothy to withdraw from, rather than engage with, the opponents described in vv. 3–5?

3.  Compare v. 6 with 4:8. Why is it that godliness is of even more value than other valuable pursuits? Rather than pursuing wealth (v. 9–10), what should we pursue?

4.  Why does Paul describe the pursuit of godliness with such vivid, active verbs in v. 12?

5.  Why does Paul charge Timothy “before Christ Jesus who witnessed the good confession before Pontius Pilate” (v. 13)?

6.  Why does Paul focus on the Lord’s kingly authority, immortality, glory, honor and power in vv. 15–16? How does this reminder of these attributes of God contribute to Paul’s argument here?

7.  How do vv. 17–19 provide a helpful balance to the comments about greed in vv. 9–10?

Application: *Take time to reflect on the implications of this passage for your own life today.*

1.  What does this passage mean for your walk with the Lord?

2.  How does this passage challenge the way you think about situations in daily life? What should you do about that?

Review: *Take a few moments to look back through your study of 1 Timothy. *

1.  What are some passages/topics in 1 Timothy that you found to be particularly challenging or helpful?


