**Ephesians 1:1–14 (NKJV)**

Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, To the saints who are in Ephesus, and faithful in Christ Jesus: ^2^ Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.

^3^ Blessed *be* the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly *places* in Christ, ^4^ just as He chose us in Him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before Him in love, ^5^ having predestined us to adoption as sons by Jesus Christ to Himself, according to the good pleasure of His will, ^6^ to the praise of the glory of His grace, by which He has made us accepted in the Beloved. ^7^ In Him we have redemption through His blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of His grace ^8^ which He made to abound toward us in all wisdom and prudence, ^9^ having made known to us the mystery of His will, according to His good pleasure which He purposed in Himself, ^10^ that in the dispensation of the fullness of the times He might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven and which are on earth—in Him. ^11 ^In Him also we have obtained an inheritance, being predestined according to the purpose of Him who works all things according to the counsel of His will, ^12^ that we who first trusted in Christ should be to the praise of His glory. ^13^ In Him you also *trusted*, after you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation; in whom also, having believed, you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise, ^14^ who is the guarantee of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession, to the praise of His glory.

Interpretation: *Read through the passage, and then review and make notes under the questions below.*

Why is it important that Paul was an apostle “by the will of God” (v. 1)?

What stands out to you as the main theme of vv. 3–14?

The phrase “to the praise of His glory” appears in verse 6, 12, and 14. What is the significance of this repetition?

According to v. 3, what is one reason why God should be blessed?

What does it mean that God “chose us before the foundation of the world” (v. 4), and what is the purpose for which He chose us?

Look up “adoption” in a Bible dictionary, study Bible, or commentary. How is this concept different from our modern practice, and how does that aid your understanding of verse 5?

How many times does the phrase “in Christ” (or an equivalent phrase with “in” and a pronoun referring to Christ) appear in vv. 3–14? When you look at these in context, how would you summarize the actions of God on our behalf?

What does the passage identify as the “inheritance” mentioned in verse 11?

Describe the role of the Holy Spirit identified in vv. 13–14.

Application: *Take time to reflect on the implications of Ephesians 1:1–14 for your own life today.*

What does this passage mean for your walk with the Lord?

How does this passage challenge the way you think about situations in daily life? What should you do about that?
