**Ephesians 1:15–23 (NKJV)**

Therefore I also, after I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love for all the saints, ^16^ do not cease to give thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers: ^17^ that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give to you the spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of Him, ^18^ the eyes of your understanding being enlightened; that you may know what is the hope of His calling, what are the riches of the glory of His inheritance in the saints, ^19^ and what *is* the exceeding greatness of His power toward us who believe, according to the working of His mighty power ^20^ which He worked in Christ when He raised Him from the dead and seated *Him* at His right hand in the heavenly *places*, ^21^ far above all principality and power and might and dominion, and every name that is named, not only in this age but also in that which is to come. ^22^ And He put all *things* under His feet, and gave Him *to be* head over all *things* to the church, ^23^ which is His body, the fullness of Him who fills all in all.

Interpretation: *Read through the passage, and then review and make notes under the questions below.*

What is Paul’s primary prayer request as he prays for his readers (vv. 17–19)?

What does Paul specifically pray that his readers would learn (vv. 18–19)? How would you explain each of these ideas?

What is it about God’s calling that brings hope (v. 18)?

What is the “inheritance” described in verse 18?

Explain why the phrase “toward us who believe” appears in verse 19.

What is the significance of the phrase “above all principality and power and might and dominion” (v. 21)?

What is the church (vv. 22–23), and what does that mean for your role in one of God’s churches?

Application: *Take time to reflect on the implications of Ephesians 1:15–23 for your own life today.*

What does Paul’s example in verses 15–16 teach us about how we pray for others?

What does this passage mean for your walk with the Lord?

How does this passage challenge the way you think about situations in daily life? What should you do about that?
