**Ephesians 2:1–10 (NKJV)**

And you *He made alive*, who were dead in trespasses and sins, ^2^ in which you once walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit who now works in the sons of disobedience, ^3^ among whom also we all once conducted ourselves in the lusts of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, just as the others. ^4^ But God, who is rich in mercy, because of His great love with which He loved us, ^5 ^even when we were dead in trespasses, made us alive together with Christ (by grace you have been saved), ^6^ and raised *us* up together, and made *us* sit together in the heavenly *places* in Christ Jesus, ^7^ that in the ages to come He might show the exceeding riches of His grace in *His* kindness toward us in Christ Jesus.

^8^ For by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves; *it is* the gift of God, ^9^ not of works, lest anyone should boast. ^10^ For we are His workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them.

Interpretation: *Read through the passage, and then review and make notes under the questions below.*

What does it mean to be “dead in trespasses and sins” (v.1)? Explain the difference between someone who *is currently* “dead in trespasses and sins” and someone who *once* *was* “dead in trespasses and sins” (v. 1)?

Explain what it means to “walk” after “the course of this world” (v. 2). You may find it helpful to consult a variety of translations on this phrase.

Why does Paul say that we were children of wrath by *nature* (v. 3)? How should this affect our view of lost people?

What does it mean that God is “rich in mercy” (v. 4)?

What three things did God do to us when we were “dead in trespasses” (vv. 5–6)? Were these actions performed for us individually, or as a collective group?

According to the passage, what is God’s one purpose for the three actions mentioned in question \#5? How do those actions accomplish that purpose?

Why is it important that we are saved “by grace through faith” (v. 8)?

What is the “gift” mentioned in verse 8?

Explain what it means to be God’s “workmanship” or “creation” (v. 10).

Application: *Take time to reflect on the implications of Ephesians 2:1–10 for your own life today.*

What does this passage mean for your walk with the Lord?
