**Ephesians 3:14–21 (NKJV)**

For this reason I bow my knees to the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, ^15^ from whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named, ^16^ that He would grant you, according to the riches of His glory, to be strengthened with might through His Spirit in the inner man, ^17^ that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith; that you, being rooted and grounded in love, ^18^ may be able to comprehend with all the saints what *is* the width and length and depth and height—^19^ to know the love of Christ which passes knowledge; that you may be filled with all the fullness of God.

^20^ Now to Him who is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that works in us, ^21^ to Him *be* glory in the church by Christ Jesus to all generations, forever and ever. Amen.

Interpretation: *Read through the passage, and then review and make notes under the questions below.*

When Paul says that it is “for this reason” that he prays (v. 14), what is the reason that he is referring to in context?

What is the “family” that Paul mentions in v. 15?

What does it mean when Paul speaks of God “grant[ing] you … to be strengthened with might through His Spirit in the inner man” (v. 16)? To what extent should we expect God to carry this out?

Describe actions that would characterize someone in whose heart Christ dwells (v. 17).

What does it mean to be “filled with all the fullness of God” (v. 19)?

How can the church bring glory to someone as infinite and powerful as God (vv. 20–21)?

Application: *Take time to reflect on the implications of Ephesians 3:14–21 for your own life today.*

What does this passage mean for your walk with the Lord?

How does this passage challenge the way you think about situations in daily life? What should you do about that?

Review and Reflect: *Take some time to think back over our past six weeks of study in Ephesians 1:1–3:21.*

As you review these chapters, what are some great doctrines that have challenged you over the past 6 weeks?

When you think about those doctrines, what are some key passages in Ephesians that you have found meaningful? How has your understanding of God grown through our study so far?
