**Ephesians 4:1–16 (NKJV)**

I, therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you to walk worthy of the calling with which you were called, ^2^ with all lowliness and gentleness, with longsuffering, bearing with one another in love, ^3 ^endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. ^4^ *There is* one body and one Spirit, just as you were called in one hope of your calling; ^5^ one Lord, one faith, one baptism; ^6^ one God and Father of all, who *is* above all, and through all, and in you all.

^7^ But to each one of us grace was given according to the measure of Christ’s gift. ^8^ Therefore He says:

“When He ascended on high, He led captivity captive, And gave gifts to men.”

^9^ (Now this, “He ascended”—what does it mean but that He also first descended into the lower parts of the earth? ^10^ He who descended is also the One who ascended far above all the heavens, that He might fill all things.)

^11^ And He Himself gave some *to be* apostles, some prophets, some evangelists, and some pastors and teachers, ^12^ for the equipping of the saints for the work of ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ, ^13^ till we all come to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to a perfect man, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ; ^14^ that we should no longer be children, tossed to and fro and carried about with every wind of doctrine, by the trickery of men, in the cunning craftiness of deceitful plotting, ^15^ but, speaking the truth in love, may grow up in all things into Him who is the head—Christ—^16^ from whom the whole body, joined and knit together by what every joint supplies, according to the effective working by which every part does its share, causes growth of the body for the edifying of itself in love.

Interpretation: *Read through the passage, and then review and make notes under the questions below.*

How would you define a “walk” that is “worthy of the calling with which you were called” (v. 1)? How does the context of this verse explain this idea?

What do you think the “unity of the Spirit” that Paul describes in verse 3 might be? How can you “keep” it in “the bond of peace”?

Paul uses the word “one” seven times in vv. 4–6. What are the entities that he describes as singularities? How does the singularity of these things support his argument?

How much grace is given to “each one of us” in v. 7? What is described by the phrase “Christ’s gift”?

Explain the reference to the “lower parts of the earth” in v. 9.

What does the passage identify as the purpose of the gifts to the church (identified in verse 11)?

Describe the goal of faithful ministry (found in v. 13–15). What would the result look like in an individual congregation and in the church at large?

What is the relationship between Christ and the church that is described in v. 16?

Application: *Take time to reflect on the implications of Ephesians 4:1–16 for your own life today.*

What does this passage mean for your walk with the Lord?

How does this passage challenge the way you think about situations in daily life? What should you do about that?
