**Ephesians 5:1–14 (NKJV)\
**

Therefore be imitators of God as dear children. ^2^ And walk in love, as Christ also has loved us and given Himself for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet-smelling aroma.

^3^ But fornication and all uncleanness or covetousness, let it not even be named among you, as is fitting for saints; ^4^ neither filthiness, nor foolish talking, nor coarse jesting, which are not fitting, but rather giving of thanks. ^5^ For this you know, that no fornicator, unclean person, nor covetous man, who is an idolater, has any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. ^6^ Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. ^7 ^Therefore do not be partakers with them.

^8^ For you were once darkness, but now *you are* light in the Lord. Walk as children of light ^9^ (for the fruit of the Spirit *is* in all goodness, righteousness, and truth), ^10^ finding out what is acceptable to the Lord. ^11^ And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather expose *them*. ^12^ For it is shameful even to speak of those things which are done by them in secret. ^13^ But all things that are exposed are made manifest by the light, for whatever makes manifest is light. ^14^ Therefore He says:

“Awake, you who sleep,

Arise from the dead,

And Christ will give you light.”

Interpretation: *Read through the passage, and then review and make notes under the questions below.*

Verse 1 begins with the word, “therefore.” How does this passage fit in with the prior context?

Look up the word translated “imitator” in a concordance or using Bible software. How do the other references to this term in the New Testament help us understand what Paul is saying in Eph. 5:1?

Reflect on the significance of Christ’s own actions as described in verse 2. What is the relationship between our responsibility to “walk in love” and his actions on our behalf?

In verses 3–4, Paul identifies several actions that are “not fitting for saints.” What exactly are these practices, and what is it that makes them inappropriate? [Note: You may want to consult cross-references for additional help.]

What is the key phrase identifying the person in verse 5 who does not have an “inheritance in the kingdom”?

What does it mean to be a child of light (v. 8)? How does the surrounding context explain this idea?

How does one discover “what is acceptable to the Lord” (v. 10)?

In verse 11, Paul contrasts “darkness” with “light.” What does this verse suggest about the effect of Christian living?

Application: *Take time to reflect on the implications of Ephesians 5:1–14 for your own life today.*

What does this passage mean for your walk with the Lord?

How does this passage challenge the way you think about situations in daily life? What should you do about that?
