**Ephesians 6:10–24 (NKJV)**

Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of His might. ^11^ Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. ^12^ For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this age, against spiritual *hosts* of wickedness in the heavenly *places*. ^13^ Therefore take up the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand.

^14^ Stand therefore, having girded your waist with truth, having put on the breastplate of righteousness, ^15^ and having shod your feet with the preparation of the gospel of peace; ^16^ above all, taking the shield of faith with which you will be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked one. ^17 ^And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God; ^18^ praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, being watchful to this end with all perseverance and supplication for all the saints—^19^ and for me, that utterance may be given to me, that I may open my mouth boldly to make known the mystery of the gospel, ^20^ for which I am an ambassador in chains; that in it I may speak boldly, as I ought to speak.

^21^ But that you also may know my affairs *and* how I am doing, Tychicus, a beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord, will make all things known to you; ^22^ whom I have sent to you for this very purpose, that you may know our affairs, and *that* he may comfort your hearts.

^23^ Peace to the brethren, and love with faith, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. ^24 ^Grace *be* with all those who love our Lord Jesus Christ in sincerity. Amen.

Interpretation: *Read through the passage, and then review and make notes under the questions below.*

What is the source of the believer’s strength in verse 10?

What is the purpose of the “armor of God” in verse 11? Should we understand this purpose as primarily offensive or defensive in focus?

See Eph. 1:19–22. What does this cross-reference tell you about the battle described in v. 12?

Consult a study Bible or commentary and briefly define each piece of the Christian’s spiritual armor described in vv. 14–17.

Belt of Truth

Breastplate of Righteousness

Feet shod with preparation of the Gospel of Peace

Shield of Faith

Helmet of Salvation

Sword of the Spirit

What is the role of prayer in Christian warfare, and how important is it (v. 18)?

What was Paul’s personal prayer request (v. 19–20)? Would you have anticipated his request?

Application: *Take time to reflect on the implications of Ephesians 6:10–24 for your own life today.*

What does this passage mean for your walk with the Lord?

How does this passage challenge the way you think about situations in daily life? What should you do about that?
