**Worksheet \#8: 2 Corinthians 9:1–15**

**Summary:** In chapter 9, Paul wraps up his discussion of the collection by attending to administrative details. In verses 1–5, he gives instructions to facilitate the gathering of funds prior to Paul’s arrival in Corinth. Then, in verses 6–15, he provides instruction on the theology of giving, observing that the God who makes grace abound is more than capable of providing financially for his children (9:8). In 9:12–14, he reminds the Corinthians that their generosity towards the ministry does not merely supply the temporal needs of the Judean believers, but that their generosity itself adds to the glory of God.

**Abbreviated Outline**[^1] **(current passage in bold):**

I.  Introduction (1:1–11)

II. Paul’s Relationship with the Corinthians (1:12–2:11)

III. Paul’s Defense of his Ministry (2:12–7:16)

    A.  Paul’s Ministry in Troas and Macedonia (2:12–17)

    B.  Paul’s Letters of Recommendation (3:1–3)

    C.  Paul’s Competence (3:4–6)

    D.  Ministry of the New Covenant (3:7–18)

    E.  The Unveiled Truth (4:1–6)

    F.  Treasure in Clay Jars (4:7–18)

    G.  The Coming Resurrection (5:1–10)

    H.  The Ministry of Reconciliation (5:11–6:2)

    I.  Catalog of Paul’s Sufferings (6:3–13)

    J.  Call to Separate from Paul’s Opponents (6:14–7:1)

    K.  Paul’s Final Defense (7:2–16)

IV. **The Collection for the Believers in Jerusalem (8:1–9:15)**

    A.  Example of the Churches in Macedonia (8:1–7)

    B.  Examples of Christ’s Sacrifice and the Old Testament (8:8–15)

    C.  Administration of the Offering (8:16–24)

    D.  **Importance of Having the Offering Ready (9:1–5)**

    E.  **Principles Motivating Generous Giving (9:6–15)**

V.  Paul’s Renewed Defense of his Apostleship (10:1–13:4)

VI. Final Exhortations (13:5–12)

VII. Closing (13:13)

Interpretation: *Read through the passage, and then review and make notes under the questions below.*

Why does Paul say that it is “superfluous” (or “unnecessary”) for him to write to the Corinthians regarding the collection in 9:1?

If the Achaians were ready (Corinth was part of the Achaian region; 9:2), why did Paul find it necessary to “send the brethren” (9:3–4)?

The word translated “generous gift” in 9:5–6 is the word *eulogia* (“blessing”) from which we get our English word “eulogy.” In what ways can a monetary gift be described as a “blessing”?

In what sense will givers “reap” in accordance with their generosity (9:6)?

Does 9:7 allow believers to choose not to give, if they so “purpose in [their] heart[s]”?

Does 9:8–11 mean that all Christians will become rich financially? What does it promise instead?

What is the significance of financial gifts to the work of the ministry, based on 9:12–15?

Application: *Take time to reflect on the implications of this passage for your own life today.*

Are you giving to the local church in a way that reflects the teaching of this passage? Would other people agree with your answer if they examined your monthly budget?

What does this passage mean for your walk with the Lord?

How does this passage challenge the way you think about situations in daily life? What should you do about that?

[^1]: Adapted from Andreas J. Köstenberger, L. Scott Kellum, and Charles L. Quarles, *The Cradle, The Cross, and The Crown: An Introduction to the New Testament* (Nashville, Tenn: B & H Academic, 2009), 484.
